Use the house_prices.csv dataset for this purpose.

Here are the important fields you should know:

'tx_price' - Transaction price in USD
'sqft' - Total floor area in squared feet
'lot_size' - Total outside area in squared feet
'median_age' - Median age of the neighborhood
'year_built' - Year property was built
'nightlife' - Number of nightlife venues within 1 mile
'beauty_spas' - Number of beauty and spa locations within 1 mile
‘roof’ - roof type
‘exterior walls’ - exterior wall type
‘property_type’ - kind of property


Download the dataset from the slack channel if you have not already done so.

Open your R script file and load the .csv file by navigating to the downloaded directory. Try using getwd() and setwd() for practice.

Great! Now form a new dataset containing only the fields:

Examine the distribution of the exterior_walls variable (Hint: Use a bar chart). 
Aaah! The labels on the x-axis are too close to each other. Could you try flipping them to the y-dimension? 
That's much better. Which kind of exterior walls are least common? Can you tell that looking at the plot? Confirm your answer by looking at the actual counts.
Do you notice any unusual type of exterior wall? 
How about missing values? Replace them by 'NA's and save in a new data frame called house_prices3. 
Now plot the distribution of exterior walls again using the new dataframe. What does ggplot do with the missing values?

Which year had the maximum number of sales?

Obtain a histogram of the variable median_age. 
Now, overlay multiple histograms in the same plot to see how they vary based on the type of exterior wall used. 
Use bin widths of 1,5, and 20. What do you notice?

Examine the distribution of sale prices of properties broken down by property type. 
On an average, what kind of houses are more expensive? 

Examine the distribution of plot areas of properties broken down by property type. 
On an average, which kind of houses are larger? 
Which kind of property sees a greater variance in sizes? 
Does the difference in distributions in classes make intuitive sense? 

Examine the distribution of sale prices of properties broken down by exterior wall type.
First try flipping the coordinates to get a better view of the labels.
Now, can you reorder from the highest median to the lowest median to see which one is used in the most expensive properties?

What do you expect of the relationship between number of nightlife venues within 1 mile and the number of beauty and spa locations within 1 mile? 
Plot the relationship. What do you see?
Suppose you wish to bin one continuous variable so it acts like a categorical variable. Accomplish this by varying cut widths of 1,2, 5 and 10 for the nightlife variable. What do you observe?

Examine the relationship between roof type and exterior walls type.
Don’t see anything? Just to make sure there are values, compute the counts using dplyr.
There are! But the counts are too small to be significant. Why don’t you try visualising with geom_tile() and the fill aesthetic?
Much better!

Plot the distribution of lot sizes. 
What does this distribution tell you?
Which values do you think you should discard?
Zoom to small values of the x-axis to see what happens. Try varying the upper limit of the cartesian coordinates in increments of 5000. What do you observe? 
Use the summary() command to obtain the distribution of the lot_size variable. Now do you change your decision about which values do you think you should discard?

